# Simple Build

First, one must *clone* the project using [git](https://git-scm.com/); assuming ``git`` is installed on your system, run the following command: 

To view the project for the alpha, include the ``--branch milestone-8`` option. For development-mode, omit it.

```shell script
git clone https://git.cs.usask.ca/brd171/370-project.git uplan 
```

Then, change your *working directory* to be the root of the project:

```shell script
cd uplan
```

Before the website is loaded, we need to set-up docker as well as the accompanying postgres database. To initialize docker run:

```shell script
sudo docker-compose run web python manage.py migrate
```
If this is your first time running this command then this will take some time. This is because docker will need to set up the required images and dependencies.

Next we need to populate the database. We do this with the command

```shell script
sudo docker-compose run web python manage.py loadData
```
Since the database is rather large this will also take some time to set up. IF THIS COMMAND ENDS ON AN ERROR SAYING INDEX OUT OF RANGE THEN IT STILL WORKED. If this process is interrupted then any changes made to the database can be undone by replacing "loadData" with "deleteData"

Once the database is initialized we can start all of the necessary servers with the following

```shell script
sudo docker-compose up
```

After this is done the webpage can be accessed by opening the webpage "localhost:3000" in browser

## Simple Build Through the Virtual Machine

The steps described here will setup the virtual machine, then it will set up port forwarding from your computer, to tuxworld, to the virtual machine.

### Run on Virtual Machine

First ssh into tuxworld, and the virtual machine with 
```shell script
ssh nsid@tuxworld.usask.ca
ssh user@CMPT370g3.usask.ca
```
Both commands ask for passwords. The first will be your university password. The second password is "".

For this step we assume that everything is initialized. Start the server with

```shell script
sudo docker-compose up -d
```

This starts the servers in a detached state so we can let it run. Now exit from the CMPT370g3 with the ``exit`` command. Now we need to port forward from your tuxworld account to the virtual machine. This is done with
```shell script
ssh -N -f -L 3000:localhost:3000 user@CMPT370g3.usask.ca
```
You will again need to enter the password for the virtual machine. Now exit to your own machine with ``exit`` and forward another port from your machine to your tuxworld account with
```shell script
ssh -N -f -L 3000:localhost:3000 nsid@tuxworld.usask.ca
```

Once again enter your university password to access tuxworld. Now that that is done you can access the website in your browser by going to ``localhost:3000``


### Stopping Everything
Once the above steps are done there will be at least one background process running on each machine we've used. Here's what we do to stop them

First we close the port forward on your local machine:
```
kill $(ps aux | grep "ssh -N -f -L 3000:localhost:3000" | grep -v "grep" | awk '{print $2}')  ```

Now do the same thing with tuxworld. SSH into tuxworld like we've done before and do the same thing with
```shell script
ssh nsid@tuxworld.usask.ca
kill $(ps aux | grep "ssh -N -f -L 3000:localhost:3000" | grep -v "grep" | awk '{print $2}')  
```

Now we want to stop the server on the virtual machine. This is done with
```shell script
ssh user@tuxworld.usask.ca
sudo docker-compose stop
```

With that we have shut down all the process we have created
